
you would end up with:
Mrs Black, 42 Brookside, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire
Miss Brown, 27 River Road, Hardwick, Cambridgeshire
Mr White, 3 The Lane, Cleethorpes, Humberside
Dr Jones, 93 Sea View, Grimsby, Humberside
Rev Smith, 118 High St, Leeds, Yorkshire
The two Cambridgeshire addresses are first, with the Cambridge
one occurring before the Hardwick one. The two Humberside
addresses are next, with the Cleethorpes one before the Grimsby
one and finally you get the Yorkshire address.
To do a multiple field sort, you need to start in the usual manner
by specifying the sort character for both fields:
1 Highlight the first field you wish to sort by either clicking on
it or using the up and down arrow keys.
2 Click on the +/—/x button or double click on the highlighted
field to cycle through the alternative sort characters until it
reaches + or -, whichever you wish to use.
3 Highlight the second field you wish to sort by.
4 Click on the +/-/x button or double click on the highlighted
field to cycle through the alternative sort characters until it
reaches + or -, whichever you wish to use.
You then need to specify the sort priority. This is detennined by
the relative positions of the two fields in the list. The higher field
is the top priority sort, the lower field is used to order those fields
which were equal after the first sort. For example in the address
book shown above, County would need to be higher than Town.
You can move the fields using the Up and Down buttons:
. Clicking on Up will move the highlighted field up the list.
. Clicking on Down will move the highlighted field down the
list.

The position of fields which are to be ignored is irrelevant.
However, you will probably find it more convenient to have the
fields you are sorting on in order at the top of the list and the other
fields which are being ignored below, as in the first example
above.
The example above has used just two fields to sort on, but you can
sort on all the fields if you wish.

How the database changes
Sorting changes the database in two ways. It changes the order in
which the records are stored. In addition, it changes the order of
the fields within each record, such that the fields which were
sorted on are moved to the start of the record. This will alter your
display if you are using a sheet layout and will alter the order in
which the fields are listed in the Properties, Layout, Search and
Sort dialogue boxes.
Note that to prevent your data being left in an inconsistent state,
for example if a power cut were to occur in the middle of a sort,
the sort operation works on a copy of the data. Only when the sort
has been successfully completed is the original copy removed.
This means that you need sufficient free disc space to allow a copy
of the data to be made before performing a sort. If there is
insufficient free space then the sort will be aborted and you will be
returned to the original sorted data order.

Fireworkz Pro 119



