
Sorting different data types
Different types of field are treated in different ways when they are
sorted:
. Text fields are sorted alphabetically using the ASCII character
values.
. Number fields are sorted numerically.
. Date and interval fields are sorted chronologically.
. Formula fields are sorted depending on the data type which
they evaluate to. For example if the fonriula yields a number,
they will be sorted numerically.
Therefore it is important that you have theitypes of your fields set
correctly. For example, if you are performing ascending sorts (+):
. 20 will be placed before 110 if they occur in number fields but
110 will be placed before 20 if they occur in text fields
because the first character of 110, i.e. 1, has a lower ASCII
value than the first character of 20, i.e. 2.
. Similarly, 31.12.92 will be placed before 01.01.93 if they
occur in date fields but not if they occur in text fields.

Adding and editing fields
If you enter data into a new, blank record, or make changes to an
existing record, then the record you are working on will be moved
into its correct position within the database, using the last sort you
carried out.
In the case of card layouts, this re-positioning occurs when you
move to a different card. Thus, when you are entering data into a
card, the record will only be re-positioned when you have finished
all the input and moved off the record, for example by clicking
within a different record or pressing Retum from the last field to
move on to the next record.
In the case of sheet layouts, the re-positioning occurs when you
move off a field which is relevant to the sort - and so can happen
whilst you are in the middle of completing a record. This can be
inconvenient because you will suddenly find that the record you
are working on has ‘disappeared’ and that the caret is in the middle
of a different record. Thus you are recommended to use card
layouts when you are entering and editing data within a sorted
database.
Note that if you sort your data and then add some extra records, it
is not necessary to sort your data again afterwards.
Note also that sorting affects the order of records within the
database itself. After carrying out a sort it is not possible to return
to the ‘unsorted’ order in which the records were entered.

Fireworkz Pro 121

