Database Guide 164

Non-database features
Fireworkz Pro provides a number of new features which are not
related to databases.

New button bar
The button bar in Fireworkz Pro has been re-arranged and
extended. In addition, the buttons displayed alter depending on
what type of cell you are currently in. For example, if the cell is
within a database, the database options will be displayed but the
spreadsheet options will disappear.

Editing in cell
With Resultz and Fireworkz, if you wanted to edit a number held
in a cell, you had to use the Formula line as follows:
1 Click in the cell you want to change.
2 Click in the formula line or press F2 to start editing.
3 Click the caret into position or move the caret with the left or
right arrow keys.
4 Use the Delete key to remove the characters you don't want
and enter the new characters
5 Press Return or click on the Tick button to enter the new
value.
With Fireworkz Pro, you can edit the number in the cell as though
it were text. In order to do this, you need to tum on the appropriate
option in the Choices dialogue box:

Fireworkz Pro 165

1 Point at the Fireworkz Pro icon on the icon bar, click the
menu button and select the Choices option. The Choices
dialogue box will appear:
2 Set the Edit in cell option within the Spreadsheet section by
clicking on it.
3 Click OK.
Now, you can alter a number as follows:
1 Click the caret into position in the cell you want to change.
2 Use the Delete key to remove the characters you don't want
and enter the new characters.
3 Press Return.
You can still use the formula line if you wish, however the in cell
editing involves fewer steps and is therefore faster. The
disadvantage of in cell editing is that if slows down the display
speed of very large spreadsheets. This is why the option is off by
default. If you set this option you are advised to set the Fixed
height option in the Row section of the BaseSheet style to off.
Note that you still have to use the formula line for editing
formulae.




