Database Guide 166

Automatic cell type recognition
Fireworkz Pro now uses implied styles to distinguish between text
and number cells, rather than applying a Text style to a region as
in Fireworkz. This means, for example, that when you edit a text
cell and it changes to a number cell, the Number style will be used
automatically rather than the Text style. Thus you do not have to
remove a Text region which Fireworkz has applied for you.
Your old Sheet documents may well still contain cells with Text
regions applied. You could remove all these in one go by deleting
the Text style from the document. Then save a new copy of the
Text style from a new blank Sheet document (using Save
template) into your existing document.
Automatic format recognition and application
With Resultz and Fireworkz, if you entered, for example:
£23.50
in a cell, it would be treated as being text. To obtain the number
23.50 with a pound sign in front of it you would have to:
1 Enter 23.50 in the cell.
2 Display the Style dialogue box.
3 Choose the Pounds style.
4 Click Apply.
Fireworkz Pro is able to interpret many common styles of input
data as numbers and then apply the necessary style to them to
make them appear correctly.
Thus, you can enter:
£23.50
and it will be treated as currency automatically.

Fireworkz Pro 167

Styles inside number formats
A number format can have up to three different definitions; for
positive numbers, negative numbers and zero. This is achieved by
entering each format in the number format box separated by a
semi-colon.
With Fireworkz Pro, you can supply the name of a style, within
square brackets, to be applied to any of the formats. For example:
£#,##0.00;(£#,##0.00) [negative]
will apply the negative style, which is defined to display text in
red, to negative numbers.

Value lists in styles
Fireworkz Pro provides a number of styles which contain value
lists. When these styles are applied to numbers, the numbers
change into the values which they represent. Thus they provide a
short cut for entering commonly used words.

The styles provided are:
NoYes FalseTrue
No False 0
Yes True 1

Weekday_short Weekday_long
Sun Sunday 1
Mon Monday 2
Tue Tuesday 3
Wed Wednesday 4
Thu Thursday 5
Fri Friday 6
Sat Saturday 7




