Before you start
Database v Document files
When you use Recordz to create a new database, you are in fact
creating two separate files:
. The Recordz document file - this stores information about the
layout and appearance of your database.
. The database file - this stores the data itself. (The file format
used is the DataPower format and so, if you wish, you can
also load and edit the data using DataPower.)
Each Recordz document file can access just one database file.
Therefore, a document can be displaying records from just one
database at a time.
However, a database file can be accessed by more than one
document file. This allows you to have a number of different
documents, each displaying particular set of information from a
single database. For example, you could access the address book
database which you created in the First steps chapter, from further
documents which display different sets of fields such as:
. An address book giving names and addresses.
. A phone book giving names and telephone numbers.
. A birthday book giving names and birthdays.
One advantage of having multiple layouts is that they allow you to
view and print out partial records from the database quickly and
easily.


The database template
The database template provided helps you to produce both the
document and database files and handle them as though they were
one item.
To use the database template:
1 Click Select on the Recordz icon on the icon bar and the list
of existing templates will be displayed.
2 Choose database and the following dialogue box will appear:
3 Enter a name in the box provided, then drag the directory icon
and drop it in a directory viewer. The directory will be created
and in it will be placed both the document layout and database
files required.
If you treat the directory as the complete database from now on,
you can copy, delete and rename a single item, rather than
worrying about the two files that make up the database. This will
simplify the process of managing your databases. In addition, in
subsequent sessions when you want to load this database you can
drag the directory to the Recordz icon on the icon bar, rather than
having to open the directory and double-click on the Recordz
document file inside.
Fireworkz Pro 57




