
The db_temp|ates
The other templates provided, db_cards, db_1card and db_sheet
can be used for creating new databases, as shown in the First Steps
chapter. However, you need to do more of the work yourself with
these than with the database template. Therefore, you may prefer
to use these for importing existing databases.
Before you can create a database using these templates, you must
have saved your current document on disc, because Recordz needs
to know where the database is to be created.
If you have loaded an existing document, then you have nothing
further to do.
If you have created a new document then you need to:
1 Click on the Save button or choose Save from the File menu.
A Save dialogue box will appear:
2 Enter the name you wish to give your document in the box
provided.
3 Drag the file icon and drop it in a directory viewer. Note that
the file icon will be different for Recordz and Fireworkz Pro.
When you create the database file, as described later in this
chapter, it will be stored in the same directory as your document,
so that they are kept alongside each other.

File names
The name of a new database will be created by taking the name of
the document (or first eight characters of the name if the name is
more than eight characters long) and appending the suffix '_b‘. For
example, the database for the document AddrBook created in the
First Steps chapter was named AddrBook_b. (If a file of this name
already exists, you will not be allowed to create a new database
from your document.)
When the database template is used, both the files will take their
names from the directory. The suffixes appended will be '_b' for
the database file and '_f for the document file.

How Recordz uses the database file
In order to be able to handle large databases, Recordz works
directly on the database file on disc, rather than taking a copy in
memory. This means that the size of your database is limited by
your disc storage capacity rather than the amount of RAM you
have available.
A consequence of this is that many of the operations which you
carry out in Recordz will make immediate changes to the database
which cannot be undone.
Quitting Recordz and discarding any changes you have made only
affects updates to the Recordz document and not the database
itself. Thus if you have added or deleted fields, added or deleted
records, edited any data or sorted your records, these changes will
not be discarded. Only layout and style changes can be discarded
since these details are held within the document itself.

Open databases
If your machine ‘crashes’ for any reason, the database file may
remain open. If you attempt to run the document file, you will get
a message such as ‘Database already open’. If this occurs, you must
reset the machine or enter the operating command:
* SHUT

Fireworkz Pro 59




