
Field types
The type of a field detennines the infonnation it can hold and the
way in which you can perform searches and sorts on its contents.
Settmg a field type
When a field is created its type is set by default to be text. To
change the field type:
1 Choose Properties from the Database menu to display the
Field properties dialogue box.
2 Highlight the field whose type is to be set by clicking on it or
pressing the up and down arrow keys on the keyboard to move
the highlight bar onto it.
3 Click on the menu icon adjacent to the field to display the list
of types available:
Text
Number
Date
Integer
Boolean
Picture
File
Formula
Interval
4 Choose a type from the list.

The types in detail
Text fields
Text fields can hold strings of characters. They can be used for
names, addresses, descriptions etc. Anything entered into a text
field will be stored as text. Thus you can enter a number, but you
will not be able to perform calculations on it nor perform numeric
searches on it.

Number fields
Number fields can hold any numbers, with or without decimal
points. They can be used for measurements, prices etc. Data in
number fields can be used as the basis of calculations. Number
fields can be sorted into increasing or decreasing numerical order
and searches can be performed to find, for example, all numbers
less than a particular value.

Date fields
Date fields can hold dates and/or times in different formats (as
listed in Chapter 14 - Date formats). They can be used for dates of
birth, purchasing details etc. Date fields can be sorted into forward
or reverse chronological order and searches can be performed to
find, for example, all dates before or after a particular day, or
which occur within a given year.

Integer fields
Integer fields can hold any integer (whole) numbers. They can be
used for ages, sizes, scores etc. Data in integer fields can be used
as the basis of calculations. Integer fields can be sorted into
increasing or decreasing numerical order and searches can be
performed to find, for example, all numbers less than a particular
value.

Fireworkz Pro 65




