
Boolean fields
Boolean fields can hold the values Yes and No. They can be used
for holding any information Where only two altematives are
available; whether goods have been shipped, invoices paid etc.

Picture fields
Picture fields can hold either sprites or Draw files which will be
displayed as part of the record. They can be used for displaying
digitised photographs of people, circuit diagrams etc.
To insert the picture into the field, you drag the file containing it
and drop it into the field box:
. If you drag the file to the field in the normal way it becomes
an embedded file. This means that the database stores a copy
of the resource within itself. Thus you are then free to delete
or move the original without affecting the database. The
disadvantage is that the database will become larger becausc
of having a copy of the picture inside it.
. If you Ctrl-drag the file to the field then it becomes a linked
file. This means that the database holds a copy of the
pathname of the resource and loads the picture using that
name whenever it needs to. If you delete or move the file then
the database will be unable to find or display the picture.
If you Ctrl-double click on a picture field, then either Draw or
Paint will be started up if possible, depending on the picture type,
and the picture will be loaded into the application ready for editing
etc. If the picture is linked, then you will be editing the original
version. If the picture is embedded, then you will be editing a copy
which Recordz has placed in a Scrap directory. This mechanism
allows you to export pictures which you have added to databases,
using the Save facility of Draw/Paint.

File fields
File fields can hold any type of file. If the file is of a type which
Recordz knows how to render, for example a draw or paint file,
then it will be displayed within the field. Otherwise, just the file
icon will be displayed.
Like pictures, files can be either linked or embedded depending on
whether or not you hold down the Ctrl key whilst dragging them
into the field.
If you Ctrl-double click on a file field, then the relevant
application will be started, provided that your system knows where
to look for it, and the file will be loaded into it. For example, if
your file contains a Maestro music file, then Ctrl-double clicking
on the field will start up the Maestro music editor and load the
music file into it ready to be played, changed, saved etc. If the file
is linked, then you will be editing the original version, if the
picture is embedded, then you will be editing a copy which
Recordz has placed in a Scrap directory.
Thus file fields allow you to insert any type of data you like within
a database: music, sound, text, animation sequences etc. Then,
when you wish, you can access this data by Ctrl-double clicking.
For example, if you have a database of composers, you can have a
file field containing a music sample showing an extract of their
work. Alternatively, if you have a database of authors, you can
have a file field containing a text file of their famous passages -
this would probably be too large to be displayed as part of the
database itself in an ordinary text field.

Formula fields
Formula fields can hold values which are the result of a
calculation. They can be used for displaying the VAT (obtained by
multiplying the contents of a price field by the current VAT rate)
or length of time worked (obtained by calculating the difference
between two fields holding the clocking in and clocking out times)
etc.

Fireworkz Pro 67

