
To set up a formula field, you need to enter the formula into the
box labelled Default value within the Field properties dialogue
box. If you wish to refer to values held in other fields, the field
names should be enclosed by single quotes (not double quotes).
For example, to set up a formula to calculate the VAT on a value
held in a number field whose name is ‘Price’, enter the following in
the Default value box:
‘Price’ * 0.175
Alternatively, to set up a fonnula to display the length of time
worked given the values in the two date fields; 'ClockIn' and
'ClockOut', enter the following in the Default value box:
'ClockOut' - 'ClockIn'
These are just simple examples, the value can be the result of a
complex expression, up to 255 characters in length, involving
several different fields and operators. Thus formula fields can be
very powerful and flexible tools when you become familiar with
them. (See Chapter 13 - Expression syntax, for details of the
syntax and functions available for formula fields.)

Interval fields
Interval fields can hold time intervals which are specified in terms
of a number of years, months, days, hours, minutes and/or
seconds. These can be used for manufacturing times, work hours
etc.
For example:
1 hour 15 minutes 6 seconds
or
5 months 6 days

Setting up short cuts for data entry
When creating your database, options are provided which can
reduce the amount of effort involved when you come to enter data.
Details of how to set up these short cuts are given below. For
details of how to use the short cuts when entering data refer to
Chapter 6 - Adding & editing records.

Value lists
There may be some fields in your database which will be required
to hold a wide range of different entries. Conversely, there may be
some which are intended to hold one of just a few different
choices. For example, a school database holding details of which
foreign language pupils studied in their first year may be limited to
say; French, German, Spanish or Italian.
To help speed up the entry of information into this field, you can
build a list of entries so all that the user need do is choose an entry
from the list, rather than type the entry in full each time.
Note that the user will be free to type an entry if they prefer and
will not be limited to the choices presented, (unless a check
formula has been set as discussed in the next section). In the
example above, this means that if a pupil has moved from a
different school which offered, say Russian, their first foreign
language can be entered by typing it in the normal manner and
ignoring the value list.
Building a value list is similar to building a list of fields.
To add an entry:
1 Highlight the field to which the value list will apply by
clicking on it or using the up and down arrow keys to move
the highlight bar onto it.
2 Type the value into the box labelled Value list.
3 Click Add or press Retum.

Fireworkz Pro 69

