Number formats
Number formats are accessed from the Number section of the
style editor.
You can specify a number fonnat to be used, for example, by the
whole database as follows:
1 Click on the Style button.
2 Choose Database from the style list and click Change.
3 Click the Number button to look at the Number section of the
style editor.
4 Click on the Number option. The default number format of
the database will be displayed in the adjacent box:

This is the way in which any numbers entered into number fields
will be displayed. In this case, all numbers will appear with a
decimal point and two decimal places; thousands will have a
comma separator and negative numbers will use the negative style
which sets them to red.

Generally, you should not change the number style in the base
database style, but create new styles for each type of number
fonnat you want to use in your individual fields.

How number formats are constructed
Number formats are built up out of hash signs (#), punctuation
marks, zero characters and alphanumerical characters. Click on the
arrow at the right of the Number format definition box, and you’ll
see a list of pre-defined number formats:

The characters used in the definitions have the following effect in
the worksheet:

Hashes and zeros
Hashes which appear in the format definition are replaced by
numerals (that is, any of nought to nine) in your worksheet. Zeros
will always appear, unless replaced by actual parts of the number.
For example, in a number style 0,000 the value 10 will appear as
0,010 whereas if the style is defined as #,##0 it will appear as 10.
Where characters after the decimal point are represented by hash
signs, trailing zeros will not be displayed. For example, the format
0.## will cause 54.00 to be displayed as 54. If figures after the
decimal point are represented as zeros, trailing zeros will be
displayed. So for currency formats, where you want two decimal
places always to be displayed, you need to ensure that the format
ends with .00.

Fireworkz Pro 105




