
Enter the units number format character as a zero character, i.e.
0.##, especially if it is followed by a decimal point and places.
This will ensure that numbers between 0 and 1 have 0. in front of
them for example 0.75.

Positive and negative numbers
A number format can have up to three different definitions, for
positive and negative numbers and for zero. If you do not define a
separate Way of formatting negative numbers, they will be
displayed in the same format as positive numbers but with a minus
sign in front. In practice you need only specify a second format if
you want negative numbers to be formatted differently from
positive numbers. For example, in a financial database it may be
useful if negative numbers appear enclosed by brackets.
To create separate number formats, enter each format in the
number format box separated by a semi-colon. The negative
format appears after the semi-colon. So a format for currency with
negatives in brackets would be:
£#,##0.00;(£#,##0.00)
Enter a second semi-colon after the first two formats and a third
format can be entered to format the number 0. If you enter a
second semi-colon and no format, 0 will not be displayed. Equally,
if you enter a semi-colon after the first number format, but no
special format for negative numbers, negative numbers will not be
displayed on the worksheet.
You can also supply the name of a style to be applied to any of the
definitions. For example if you place:
[negative]
at the end of the negative format, the style negative will also be
applied. This is set up, by default, to display the text in red. Hence
£#, ##0 . 00; (£#, ##0 . 00) [negative]
would be a format for currency with negatives appearing in
brackets and in red.

Expressing Roman numerals
You can specify that numbers are displayed as Roman numerals in
upper or lower case. Enter R# for upper case Roman numerals or
r# for lower case. Roman numerals can only be displayed up to
3,999 and of course you can only display whole positive numbers.

Scientific number formats
You can choose to have numbers expressed as powers of 10, a
standard scientific format. To do this, choose the definition:
0.00e+00
from the predefined list in the Number formats box.

Percentage
This format expresses a decimal fraction as a percentage. For
example, 0.75 will appear as 75%.

Engineering format
This format expresses numbers so that they are always given in the
neatest possible format with the standard SI abbreviations giving
you the size of the number. To do this, choose the definition:
g0.##
from the predefined list in the Number formats box.

Foreign formats
You can use different characters to represent the decimal point and
thousands separator. To do this, in the number format box, enter
the comma or full stop in the UK position, and follow it with the
character you want to appear in your document. For example:
0,.000.,00
effectively swaps the full stop and comma.
You can in fact use any character as the thousands separator or
decimal point.

Fireworkz Pro 107




