
Changing the displayed precision
Recordz rounds numbers for display according to the values
specified in the Number format. However, the full number is kept
and used internally for calculations so no precision is lost.

Decimal places
If you want to see more (or fewer) decimal places, type in or
remove # or 0 characters following the decimal point. For
example:
#.00 displays two decimal places, with the numbers
always shown whether you enter digits to fill them or
not. So if you typed 4, it would appear as 4.00.
#.#### displays four decimal places, which only appear
when there are digits to fill them. So 4 would appear
as 4, 2.25 as 2.25, and 5.123456 as 5.1235.

Rounding large numbers
You can also reduce the number of digits shown, for example
showing millions as thousands (as you would in a balance sheet or
financial report). To do this, use as the definition:
># to truncate numbers by three digits.
>># to truncate numbers by six digits.

Including text strings in number formats
You can include text strings as part of a number format. This is
especially important if you want to use a character which the
number format system interprets as a special character, such as r
and e. Simply enclose text strings in quote marks, or precede a
single character with \.
Use text strings to enter abbreviations for foreign currencies, or
any other text you want to include with numbers.

Number formats summary
Definition Entered Appears as Description
No decimal places; numbers will be rounded up or
down to the nearest integer
Up to two decimal places are available
but trailing zeros will be dropped.
Trailing zeros to two decimal places will be
displayed; multiples of 1000 separated by commas
Lower-case Roman numerals
Displays number as a percentage
Displays percentage with no multiplication
Scientific format
Engineering format
Displays number as a letter of the alphabet
Currency format; negative numbers are
displayed in brackets rather than with a
minus sign
Format for displaying zero appears after second
semi-colon; here nothing is shown
Leaves the number of character spaces specified by
underline characters between the currency symbol
and decimal point
Shifts to the right by three decimal places (i.e.
displays thousands)
Shifts to the left by three decimal places
Shifts to the right by six decimal places (i.e.
displays millions)

Fireworkz Pro 109




