Introduction to the Style system
The style system gives you control over the appearance of your
document. Styles can be used to change, for example:
. The typeface, size and colour of text.
. The precision to which numbers are displayed and the way in
which they are fonnatted.
- The way in which dates and times are displayed.
(Existing Z family users who have upgraded to Fireworkz Pro will
find that the style system described below differs from that which
they are familiar with. The 'ordinary', region-based system is still
available within other parts of the system. In addition, the
'ordinary‘ styles can be accessed from within a database region by
clicking Adjust on the Style button. However, their use is not
recommended with databases.
Existing users should also note that Shift F4 and Ctrl F4 are no
longer available as key shortcuts to frequently used styles. These
have been taken over by the database‘s Search and Query
operations.)

lmplied styles
Whenever you display a database within a document, a number of
new implied styles will be created. These are automatically applied
to particular objects, such as individual fields, regardless of the
region of the document which they are occupying.

Generic styles
Three generic styles will be generated:
. Database will apply to the whole of the database, i.e. titles (in
card layouts) and data fields.
. All fields will apply to all the data fields. '
. All titles will apply to all the field titles (in card layouts).

Field styles
Each field will have a separate style, the style name being the
same as the name of the field to which it applies. If the field name
is changed then the style name is changed to stay in step.
Using these styles
If you want to apply a style to all the data fields, then you just
need to alter the All fields style. For example, to turn off the
borders around all the fields in a card layout:
1 Click on the Style button.
2 Highlight the All fields style in the list box.
3 Click Change.
4 Click on the Colours radio button to move to the appropriate
section of the Style editor.
5 Within the area devoted to Borders, set the Line style button
and choose the blank box which corresponds to tuming the
border off.
6 Click OK.
If you want to apply a particular style to a particular field, then all
you have to do is alter the corresponding field style. The style will
be applied to that field in all records, including any records which
may not currently be displayed.
For example, if your document contains a number field whose
name is Price, then a style called Price will exist which applies to
that field. If you change the Price style using the Style Editor, so
that numbers are formatted with two decimal places and are
preceded by a £ sign, then every value in that field will be
displayed in the standard currency form.
Note that it is not possible to use styles on parts of fields, only on
whole fields.

Fireworkz Pro 99




