
Entering and altering data 
When a new record is created, any of the fields for which you set
defaults will contain the value you selected. The other fields will
be empty.

Entering text using the keyboard
The usual method to enter a value into a field is to:
1 Click in the field to position the cursor.
2 Type in the text - all the usual text editing features are
available to you.

Value list short cuts
If you set up a value list when creating the database, you can use
this, when using a card layout, to enter one of the values provided.
If a value list has been set up, there will be an arrow icon next to
the field, as shown by the Language field below:

To use this:
1 Click on the arrow icon to display a list of values available.
2 Choose the one you wish to use from the list and it will be
entered in the field for you.
If the field already contains a value, for example one placed there
by default or one which you have previously entered, then this will
be replaced by the value from the list.

If you don't want to use one of the values provided in the list, then
you can type in your entry as described above.
Note that value lists cannot be accessed from sheet layouts.

Entry checking
If you try to enter a value which is invalid, then it will be rejected
as soon as Recordz tries to update the database. At this stage, the
value will be removed and, if the field had a previous value in it,
this will be displayed again, otherwise the field will remain empty.
Recordz tries to update the database every time you move out of a
cell. This means that if you are using a sheet layout, the database
will be updated whenever you move from one field to another,
because each field is held in a separate cell. If, however, you are
using a card layout, the update takes place only when you move
from one record to another because each card occupies just a
single cell. One consequence of this is that if you make several
changes to a card without moving off it, and one of them is
invalid, then all the changes will be discarded when you move to
another record.

Invalid entries
A value will be invalid if:
. It is not of the correct type for the field. For example, text
such as ABC will be rejected if the field is a number field.
. A check formula has been set up for the field and the value
does not match the formula specified. In this case, the
message ‘Record not written’ will be displayed when an
attempt is made to enter it.

Fireworkz Pro 91




