
Working with sorted databases
If you enter data into a new, blank record, or make changes to an
existing record, then the record you are working on will be moved
into its correct position within the database, using the last sort you
carried out.
In the case of card layouts, this re-positioning occurs when you
move to a different card. Thus, when you are entering data into a
card, the record will only be re-positioned when you have finished
all the input and moved off the record, for example by clicking
within a different record or pressing Retum from the last field to
move on to the next record.
In the case of sheet layouts, the re-positioning occurs when you
move off a field which is relevant to the sort - and so can happen
whilst you are in the middle of completing a record. This can be
inconvenient because you will suddenly find that the record you
are working on has ‘disappeared and that the caret is in the middle
of a different record. Thus you are recommended to use card
layouts when you are entering and editing data within a sorted
database.

Copying data

Copying records
If you wish to create a new record which is a copy of an existing
one then:
1 Click on the record to be copied,
2 Slide off the Record option of the Database menu and choose
Copy.
The new copy will be placed at the end of the file unless the file
has been sorted in which case it will be placed in its sorted
position.
If you want to create a number of records which are almost
identical then this is a quick method to use. The records you copy
will be created with all the field values identical to the original.
You can then edit any fields which you want to be different.

Copying fields
To copy individual fields you can use the Copy and Paste buttons:
1 Select the region to be copied and click on the Copy button.
2 Position the caret when the data is to be copied to and click on
the Paste button.
When using a card layout, you should use this method for
individual fields only. When using a sheet layout, you can either
copy single fields into existing records or multiple fields, in which
case new records will be created to hold them. This method can be
used to transfonn Fireworkz Pro sheet documents into databases.
For more information see Chapter 10 - Loading, saving and
printing.

Fireworkz Pro 93




