Display type
To change the display type click on either:
. Card to display the database using a card layout.
or
. Sheet to display the database using a sheet layout.

Number of records displayed
You can choose how many records you have displayed. This can
be either:
. A fixed number, regardless of the size of the database. The
number of rows which the database occupies in the document
will remain constant. If there are insufficient records to
occupy the slots allocated, blank records will be displayed.
. A variable number, which alters depending on the number of
records in the database. If records are added, the number of
rows which the database occupies in the document will
increase to accommodate them. If records are removed, the
number of rows will decrease.
To specify the number of records to be displayed, start by:
. Setting the Auto option to have the number displayed change
automatically according to how many records there are in the
database you are working on.
or
. Clearing the Auto option to have a fixed number displayed at
all times.

Rows
If you have cleared the Auto option in order to have a fixed
number displayed, you should then specify the number of rows
which the database is to occupy, either by:
. Typing the number directly into the Rows box.
or
. Clicking on the up and down arrows adjacent to the Rows box
to adjust the number already there.

Columns
For sheet layouts, the number of columns used will be determined
by the number of fields being displayed.
For card layouts, you can specify the number of cards to be placed
side by side by entering a number in the Colunms box, either by:
. Typing the number directly into the Columns box.
or
. Clicking on the up and down arrows adjacent to the Columns
box to adjust the number already there.
If you have chosen to clear the Auto option in order to display a
fixed number of records, the number of cards displayed will be
given by:
the number of columns * the number of rows deep
If you have chosen to set the Auto option in order to display a
variable number of records, the number of rows used will be given
by:
the number of records / the number of columns
rounded up to the nearest whole number.

Fireworkz Pro 79




