
Field names and titles
The field names which you entered when you created your
database are used in the database document. The way in which
they are used depends on the type of layout being used:
. For sheet layouts, the field names are displayed in the column
headings.
. For card layouts, the field names are used as the titles for the
data field boxes. These titles can be displayed in every card,
initially appearing to the left of the data fields.
If you wish, you can choose not to display one or more of the field
titles.
To turn off the title display for a field:
1 Highlight the field you wish to change by clicking on it or
pressing the up and down arrow keys on the keyboard to move
the highlight bar onto it.
2 Click on the Title option to clear it.
Note that whenever a particular field is highlighted, the state of the
Title option will indicate whether the field title is currently
displayed or not.

Selecting the fields to display
You can choose to have all the fields of each record displayed, or
just a subset of them. The list of fields is given in the list box at
the top of the Layout dialogue box. By default, all the fields will
be shown.
To choose not to display a field:
1 Highlight the field you wish to hide by clicking on it or
pressing the up and down arrow keys on the keyboard to movc
the highlight bar onto it.
2 Click on the Hidden option to set it.


Note that whenever a particular field is highlighted, the state of the
Hidden and Title options will indicate whether or not the field and
title are currently hidden. For example:
 
Note that if you hide a field and then display it again it will appear
in its original position if you are using a sheet layout. However, if
you are using a card layout then it will appear at the bottom of the
card. This is because hiding the field destroys the information
about its position on the card. Therefore when it is displayed
again, it is recreated at the obvious 'sensible' position. To move it
to the position you want, see the section ‘Editing card layouts‘,
later in this chapter.

Field order
You can also decide in which order the fields are to be displayed:
. To move an entry up the list, highlight the entry to be moved
up and click Up until it reaches the required position.
. To move an entry down the list, highlight the entry to be
moved down and click Down until it reaches the required
position.
Note that changing the order will have only have a visible effect if
you are using a sheet layout. With a card layout you can place
fields side by side as well as vertically down the card so ‘field
order‘ is not meaningful for display purposes. For card layouts the
field order is only important in determining the movement of the
caret when pressing the up and down arrow keys on the keyboard.

Fireworkz Pro 81




