Effect on your database
The layout information is held within the Recordz document and
not the database itself. Therefore, none of the options available in
the Layout dialogue box will in any way alter the contents of your
database. So, if you decide to hide a field, the field will still
remain in the database and you can reveal it later or display it in a
different document if you wish.
Note that the database only stores the data that you enter. If you
leave a field empty then no storage space is required for it.
Similarly, if you set the layout so that a particular field is large
enough to hold, say, 60 characters, but is normally used to hold
just 10 characters then the database will store just the 10 characters
you enter and will not store fifty spaces after them. This means
you do not have to worry about wasting disc space when you set
up your layout - Recordz will ensure that your database occupies
only the amount of space required for your actual data.

Moving through the records
If you have chosen to set the Auto option in the Layout dialogue
box, then all your records will be visible in your document.
If you have chosen to clear the Auto option, then only a certain
number will be visible at once. To display the others, you need to
use the controls on the button bar:
. Forward moves forwards through the database one row at a
time. Thus, if you have a sheet layout, Forward moves you
on to the next record. If you have a card layout with c
columns, Forward moves you on by c records.
. Rewind moves backwards through the database one row at a
time. Thus, if you have a sheet layout, Rewind moves you
back to the previous record. If you have a card layout with c
columns, Rewind moves you back by c records.
. Fast Forward moves forwards through the database one
display's worth at a time. Thus, if you a have a spreadsheet
layout with r rows, Fast Forward moves you on by r records.
If you have a card layout with r rows and c columns, Fast
Forward moves you on by r * c records.
. Fast Rewind moves backwards through the database one
display's worth at a time. Thus, if you a have a spreadsheet
layout with r rows, Fast Rewind moves you back by r
records. If you have a card layout with r rows and c columns,
Fast Rewind moves you back by r * c records.
. End moves forwards through the database so that the final
row in the display contains the final record.
. Start moves backwards through the database so that the first
row in the display contains the first record.

Pro 83




