
Search actions

is
The search actions detemiine how the search pattem is to be used.
This specifies that the field value has to be the same as the search
pattem. In the case of text fields, upper and lower case are ignored
so Fred will match fred, FRED etc. You should not try to use is on
number fields as rounding errors may occur which prevent two
numbers from being identical.

is not
This specifies that the field value has to be different from the
search pattern. It is the opposite of is.

contains
This specifies that the field value has to have the search pattern
within it. For example, a search pattern of RED within a text field
will match Fred, Red Rum, Alfred, Alfreda etc. In addition, a
search pattem of JAN within a date field will match all dates in
January, regardless of the format used to enter or display those
dates.

does not contain
This specifies that the field value must not contain the search
pattern. It is the opposite of contains.

is greater than
This specifies that the field value must be:
. Greater than the search value for numeric fields.
. Later than the search value for date fields.
. Later in the alphabet than the search value for text fields.

is less than
This specifies that the field value must be:
. Less than the search value for numeric fields.
. Earlier than the search value for date fields.
. Earlier in the alphabet than the search value for text fields.

don't care
This matches any field values. No search pattern is required in this
case. This is the default.

is empty
This specifies that the field must be empty. No search pattern is
required. This is particularly useful for identifying records which
you didn't complete when you created them.

is not empty
This specifies that the field must not be empty. No search pattern
is required.

expression
This allows you to enter more complex expressions for the search
pattern using a number of operators and special characters.
The operators available depend on the field type but in all cases
AND and OR can be used to combine expressions and specify if
one or both must apply:
AND specifies that both conditions must be met.
OR specifies that either condition (or both) can be met.

Fireworkz Pro 127




