
Note that active queries are saved with your document and so will
be remembered between sessions.
The search actions which you specified when carrying out your
searches are mapped onto the following special symbols:
' is =
. is not <>
. is greater than >
. is less than <
. is empty =NULL

Options
The buttons down the right-hand side act on the currently selected
query.

View
Displays the result of the search.
Selecting this for Whole File will return you to the whole
database. Selecting it for any other query will display the subset of
records matching that search pattem. Note that selecting a query
and clicking View is quicker that carrying out the search again.

Refine
Allows you to limit your search by specifying further criteria
which the records must obey. It displays a blank Search dialogue
box for you to enter a further search pattem. This is then combined
with the original such that both have to match.

For example if you took the query:
Name is Fred
and you refined it using:
Address is London

the following search would be perfonned:
Name is Fred and Address is London

Extend
Allows you to extend your search to include records matching a
further set of pattems instead. It displays a blank Search dialogue
box, for you to enter a further search pattern. This is then
combined with the original such that either has to match. For
example if you took the query:
Name is Fred
and extended it using:
Address is London
the following search would be performed:
Name is Fred or Address is London
Note that Extend is not available for the Whole File.

Change
This allows you to alter an existing query. It displays a Search
dialogue box, with the query entered into it. The search pattem
which you enter replaces the original.
Note that Change is only available for simple queries. It may not
be used on the Whole File nor on compound queries, i.e. those
which have been built up by refining etc.

Delete
This removes a query from the list.
Note that you may not Delete the Whole File query.

Fireworkz Pro 133

