Database Guide 152

Altering the database structure
The structure of a database can be altered at any time using the
Field properties dialogue box. To display this:
. Choose Properties from the Database menu.

This can be used to:
. Add new fields.
. Delete fields.
. Change the order of fields.
. Change the type of a field.
. Set up or alter a default value for a field.
. Set up or alter a value list for a field.
. Set up or alter a check formula for a field.

Fireworkz Pro 153

General details
These operations were described earlier in Chapter 4 - Creating a
database. They are reviewed briefly below and the implications of
carrying them out when your database already contains data are
discussed.
Note that to prevent your database being left in an inconsistent
state, for example if a power cut were to occur in the middle of an
operation which changes the database contents, the following
operations are carried out on a copy of the data. Only when the
operation has been successfully completed is the original copy
removed. This means that you need sufficient free disc space to
allow a copy of the data to be made before perfonning any of these
operations. If there is insufficient free space then the operation will
be aborted and you will be retumed to the original data.

Adding fields
To add a field to your database structure:
1 Type the name of the field into the box at the top left.
2 Click Add to add the field name to the bottom of the list.

Deleting fields
To delete a field from your database structure:
1 Highlight the field by clicking on it or using the up and down
arrow keys to move the highlight bar onto it.
2 Click Remove to remove the field from the list.
Note that if you delete a field from your database structure, that
field will be deleted from every record and you will lose all the
data which you have entered into it. Recordz acts on the database
directly, so even if you quit your document without saving your
changes, the database itself will have been altered.





