Database Guide 154

Changing the order of fields
To change the position of a field in the list:
1 Highlight the field to be moved by clicking on it or using the
up and down arrow keys to move the highlight bar onto it.
2 Click Up to move the field one place up the list or Down to
move the field one place down the list.
Note that this operation changes the order of the fields in the
database file. However, it only has an effect on the display if you
are using a sheet layout. With a card layout you can place fields
side by side as well as vertically down the card so ‘field order‘ is
not meaningful for display purposes. For card layouts the field
order is only important in determining the movement of the caret
when pressing the up and down arrow keys on the keyboard.

Renaming fields
To rename a field:
1 Highlight the field by clicking on it or using the up and down
arrow keys to move the highlight bar onto it.
2 Type the new name into the box at the top left.
3 Click Rename.
Note that this change occurs immediately - pressing Cancel will
not retum you to the previous field name.
The field title text will be altered automatically when you rename
the field. In addition, the name of the corresponding implied field
style will be changed.

Changing the field type
To change the field type:
1 Highlight the field by clicking on it or using the up and down
arrow keys to move the highlight bar onto it.
2 Click on the menu icon to display the list of types available.
3 Choose a type from the list.

Fireworkz Pro 155

If you change the field type, then data which you have entered will
be coerced into the new type whenever possible. For example, if
you change a text field into a number field, then strings such as
‘123’ will change to the number 123. However, if a string cannot
be evaluated, for example 'one', this will be set to 0.

Settlng a default value for a field
To set a default value:
1 Highlight the field by clicking on it or using the up and down
arrow keys to move the highlight bar onto it.
2 Enter the default value into the box provided.
This value will be applied wherever the field is currently empty.

Setting a value list for a field
To add an entry:
1 Type the value into the Value box.
2 Click Add.
To remove an entry:
1 Highlight the entry by clicking on it in the list box or using
the up and down arrow keys to move the highlight bar onto it.
2 Click Remove.
To move an entry elsewhere in the list:
1 Highlight the entry by clicking on it in the list box or using
the up and down arrow keys to move the highlight bar onto it.
2 Click Up to move the entry one place up the list or Down to
move the entry one place down the list.



