
Note that four separate fields are to be used to hold up to four lines
of the address.

Creating fields
Use the dialogue box to enter the first field name as follows:
1 Click in the box at the top to position the caret.
2 Enter Name. If you make a mistake, you can use the Delete
key to remove the characters and then try again.
3 Click Add or press Retum. The field name will be entered in
the list box.
Repeat these steps to add the remaining field names to the list.
Note that initially as each field is added, its name appears at the
bottom of the list. When the list box is no longer large enough to
display all the fields at once, you can use the scroll bar provided to
move up and down the list to view them all.

Changing your mind
Recordz is very flexible and allows you to change your mind at
any stage about which fields you want your database structure to
contain and what order you want them in.

Deleting fields
For example, if you decided that you only wanted to allocate threc
lines for the address, you could delete Address4. To do this, you
need to start by highlighting the Address4 field which can be done
in two ways:
. Use the scroll bar to make the field name Address4 visible
and then click on the field name.
. Click on any field name in the list to highlight it and then
press the arrow keys on the keyboard to move the highlight
bar up and down the list until it is over the field name
Address4.

Recordz

When you have highlighted the correct field, you can delete it as
follows:
. Click Remove.
Adding fields
If you then changed your mind again, and decided that you did
want a fourth address field after all then you can add it again:
1 Enter the name Addres S 4 in the top box.
2 Click Add or press Retum.
This will add the field name to the bottom of the list.
Re-ordering fields
To move the field you have just added into its original position:
1 Highlight the Address4 field name by clicking on it or
pressing the up and down arrow keys on the keyboard to move
the highlight bar onto it.
2 Click Up repeatedly to move the field name up the list until it
is below Address3.

Creating the database
Your database structure is now complete so:
. Click OK.
The dialogue box will disappear, the database will be created on
disc and the screen will alter so that:
. An empty record card is displayed.
. The status line displays the message:
Record 1 in Whole database - 1 record

Fireworkz Pro 33

