
Entering text
To enter text:
1 Use the mouse to move the pointer to the field where you
want to enter the text.
2 Click the Select button to place the caret there.
3 Type the text.
For example, to enter the first field of the first record:
1 Point at the top field, which is labelled Name.
2 Click Select.
3 Type Rev Alan Green.
Moving around the document
You can move the caret around the document to insert information
into other fields in different ways:
. Press Retum to move to the next field.
. Press the Up/Down arrow keys on the keyboard to move up/
down by one field.
. Use the mouse to point to the place where you want the caret
to be and click the Select button.
For example, to enter the remainder of the first record:
1 Press Return to move to the second field.
2 Type 118 High St.
3 Press Rettun again to move to the third field.
4 Type Leeds.
5 Repeat this process until the whole record is complete. N otc
that the Address4 column is empty because the address only
has three lines. Therefore, after entering the final line of the
address you need to press Retum twice in succession to move
to the Phone field.
38 Recordz

Your first record should now look as follows:

Repeat the process to add the data into all six of the records you
have created.

Copying records
The remaining four records are very similar to the one you have
just entered for Mr Frank Smith. You can save time when entering
these records by copying the existing one and then changing just
the fields which are different.
To make a copy:
1 Click on the record for Mr Frank Smith to identify it.
2 Slide off the Record option of the Database menu and choose
Copy. A new record will be created, which is identical to the
one you clicked on.
3 Click at the end of the word Frank in the first field of the
record you have just created to position the cursor. Use the
Delete key to remove the first name and title. Then type Mrs
Gloria to change the name to that of the seventh record.
4 Similarly, replace the existing birthday by 13.08.52.

Fireworkz Pro 39


