
Titles
When using a card display, you can choose whether or not to have
the field titles displayed. For example, you may wish to tum off
the titles for Address2 and Address3. To do this:
1 Display the Layout dialogue box by either clicking on the
Layout button or choosing Layout from the Database menu.
2 Highlight the Address2 field by clicking on it or pressing the
up and down arrow keys on the keyboard to move the
highlight bar onto it.
3 Click on the Title option to clear it.
4 Repeat for the Address3 field.
5 Click OK.

Editing a card layout
With a card layout, you have full control over:
. The positions and sizes of the field titles.
. The positions and sizes of the field boxes.
Each of these can be changed very easily and changes made to
one card will automatically be transmitted to the other cards as
well so they all remain the same.
For example, you may wish to move the Phone and Birthday
boxes and their titles up to fill the space left by the deleted field.
To do this:
1 Point at the Phone field in any of the cards and double click.
The box will be highlighted with a red box around it.
2 Move the pointer inside the selection box.
3 Hold the Select button down and drag the box up.
4 Release the mouse button and the box will appear at its new
position in all the cards.


Repeat this to move the birthday field and both titles into position.
Using these methods you can change the sizes and positions of any
of the titles or fields within the card. These changes will be
remembered so, for example, if you subsequently change to a
sheet layout and then change back again, you will be returned to
your edited layout, rather than the default.

Data storage
Note that the database only stores the data that you enter. If you
leave a field empty then no storage space is required for it.
Similarly, if you set the layout so that a particular field is large
enough to hold, say, 60 characters, but is normally used to hold
just 10 characters then the database will store just the 10 characters
you enter and will not place fifty spaces after them. This means
you do not have to worry about wasting disc space when you set
up your layout - Recordz will ensure that your database occupies
only the amount of space required for your actual data.

Fireworkz Pro 45




