
Sorting
Sorting allows you to change the order in which the records are
stored in the database. For example, you could sort them so that
the names were in alphabetical order, or the birthdays in
chronological order etc.
To perform a sort, click on one of the records to position the caret
within the database display and:
. Click on the Sort button.
or
. Choose Sort from the Database menu.
or
. Press Shift-F6.
The Sort dialogue box will appear as follows:

In this exercise you are going to sort the people according to their
age which means you need to use the Birthday field:
1 Highlight the Birthday field either by clicking on it or
pressing the up and down arrow keys on the keyboard to move
the highlight bar onto it.
2 Click on the +/-/x button or double click on the highlighted
field to cycle through the alternative sort characters until it
reaches +.
3 Click OK.
There will be a brief pause and then the screen will be redrawn
with the records in their sorted order.
The type of sort depends on the field type. In the case of dates you
can sort them in chronological order (by using +) or reverse
chronological order (by using -). So in this example they will be
sorted in chronological order, i.e. with the earliest date appearing
first. Thus, the eldest person in the address book will be shown at
the top and the youngest at the bottom.
If you try the sort again, and this time use -, you will find that the
order will be reversed.

More sophisticated sorts
In some cases, you may carry out a sort and find that two or more
records contain the same value for the field you are sorting on. For
example, that would happen with the address book if you sorted on
any of the address fields because five records contain the same
details. In this situation, you can specify one or more further fields
to sort on to determine the order of these records. This allows you
to determine the order exactly using a combination of criteria in
decreasing order of importance. This is covered in Chapter 8 -
Sorting, later in this Database Guide.

Fireworkz Pro 53




