
Deleting
Removing the database from a document
To remove a database from a document:
. Choose Close from the Database menu.
This will clear all the cells which contained information from the
database. The database itself will remain unchanged.
If the database occupies the whole of the document, which is the
case if one of the database templates is used, then you will be
retumed to an empty database document. The following message
will appear in the status line:
Empty database document. Use Database -> Create or drag in
an existing database file
The database will still exist on disc, so you can drag it into the
document again to reload it if you change your mind.

Deleting the database itself
The database itself is a separate file, stored on your hard drive or a
floppy disc. If you wish to delete it, you can do so using the Filer
Delete option. Note that you cannot delete the file whilst any
Recordz document which references it is open. Note also that if
you delete it then any Recordz document which references it will
be unable to function properly.

Fireworkz Pro 145

Printing

Before printing
Before trying to print, ensure that your printer is correctly set up,
loaded with paper and cartridge or ribbon, and is switched on and
set on-line.
Recordz uses the standard RISC OS printer drivers. You should
also make sure that you have loaded the printer driver that you
want to use. If you have more than one printer driver loaded make
sure that you have selected the one you want to use.
You should also make sure that your printer driver is correctly
configured. To do this when using RISC OS 3:
1 Load the printer manager by double-clicking on the !Printers
icon.
2 Double click on your printer's entry in the Printer control
window which is available from the Printer icon bar menu.
The Printer configuration dialogue box will be displayed.
3 Refer to the RISC OS 3 User Guide, in conjunction with the
documentation for your printer, for full details of what to do
to fine-tune your printer driver.

Printing the document
To print your document, either:
. Click on the Print button.
 or
. Choose Print from the File menu.
or
. Press the Print key.





