
Pamphlet printing
The pamphlet printing option enables you to print documents
which will be folded to produce an A5 pamphlet. For example in
an eight page document page one will be printed next to page
eight, page two next to page seven, and so on.
To switch on pamphlet printing, click on the Pamphlet button.
You will see that the Two up option will be switched on and that
the range list box will contain a list of pages showing you the pairs
that will appear on each page. B means a blank page.
Pamphlet printing assumes that you have a duplex printer, ie one
which automatically feeds the pages back through to print on the
reverse side. if this is not the case:
1 Delete every altemate line (representing a pair of pages) from
the Range list box, by selecting the entries and pressing
Delete.
2 Print the remaining pages.
3 Reload the paper into the printer the correct way round.
4 Choose Pamphlet printing again and delete the pages you
have already printed.
5 If necessary, switch on Reverse printing as well. The aim is to
get page two to appear on the back of page one. You may
need to experiment to get your pages in the right order and the
correct orientation.

Sides
Click on Both to print all pages, Odd to print odd pages and Even
to print even pages. The first page in a document is always an odd
page.

Reverse
This option prints pages in reverse order, ie last page first.

Fireworkz Pro 149

Collated
If you are printing more than one copy of a document this option
Wlll collate them so that the pages appear as complete documents
rather than all the page ones then all the page twos etc. However, it
can add considerably to printing time, as some printers,
particularly laser printers, can print multiple copies of a single
page much more quickly than a single copy of several different
pages.

Two up
This option prints two reduced size pages side by side on an A4
page. This will be page 1 and page 2 of the document, and
subsequent pairs of pages.

Print scale
This option lets you set the size of your printed output in tenns of
a percentage of the actual size of the document, or so that the
output will fit on the selected size of paper. This option applies to
all documents opened until you change the setting.
To set print scale:
1 Choose Scale from the Page menu. The Print scale dialogue
box will be displayed:



